THE LATEST
HIGH-TECH
SPY METHODS
M, L, Shonnon

-- 1 of 150 --

T

-- 2 of 150 --

I ttnnk the many people who trave provided me with information and zuggetiors that made ttris book pos-
sible. Most of them have asked that their names not be published. They have not. Others declined to idefuify
themselves so I do not even know who they are.

-- 3 of 150 --

THE LATEST
HIGH-TECH
( SPY METHODS
& M,L, shonnon
\\ ,o*or'f$o*Jxs*

-- 4 of 150 --

AIso by M.L. Shannon:
The Bug Book: Everything You Ever Wanted to Know about Electronic Eavesdropping . . . But
Were Afraid to Ask
Digital Privacy: A Guide to Computer Security
The Phone Book: The Latest High Tech Techniques and Equipment for Preventing Electronic
Eavesdropping, Recording Phone Calls, Ending Harassing Calls, and Stopping Toll Fraud
Don't Bug Me:
The Latest High-Tech Spy Methods
by M.L. Shannon
Copyright @ 1992 by M.L. Shannon
ISBN 0-87364-658-4
Printed in the United States of America
Published by Paladin Press,
a division of Paladin Enterprises, Inc.
Cunbarrel Tech Center
7077 Winchester Circle
Boulder, Colorado 80301, USA
+1303.443.7250
Direct inquiries and/or orders to the above address.
PALADIN, PALADIN PRESS, and the "horse head" design
are trademarks belonging to Paladin Enterprises and
registered in United States Patent and Tiademark Office.
All rights resewed. Except for use in a review, no
portion of this book may be reproduced in any form
without the express written permission of the publisher.
Neither the author nor the publisher assumes
any responsibility for the use or misuse of
information contained in this book.
Visit Our Web site at www.paladin-press.com

-- 5 of 150 --

ONTE}{TS
TNIRODUCTTON .............1
Surveillance and Eftil""""'
A Speculative History of Eavesdropping
Your Right to Know
The Truth about Countersurveillance
\fhy Me?
The Laws That Concem Surveillance
Surveillance and Privacy in the present
PART & TNSTDE DWTCES.. ................g
Microphones
Contact
The T\rbe
The Radio Spectrum
RF Transmitters
Remote Control
The Repeater
The Burst Transmitter
Microwave
Low Frequency
Infrared Transmitters
Visibl e Light Transmitters
I7ireless Intercoms
PART II: TELEPIIOI\E SLTRVEIIIT\NCE ............I7
An Overview
Direct Listening Viretaps
Remote Listening lfiretaps
TYpes ofRF Phone Bugs
Line-Powered
The Drop-In
Series and Parallel
The Infinity Transmitter
Subcarrier Extensions
Down-Line Taps
REMOBS Eavesdropping
Cordless Phones
Cellular Phones
Answering Machines
Voice Mailboxes
Satellite and Microwave Listening
Phone Tricks
Secure Phone Communications
PART III: FII\DING AUGS AND WIRETAPS ......Zg
An Overview
Conducting a Physical Search
\Vhat Does a Bug Look Like?
Batteries
Antennas
Covering the Sound of a Search
The Electronic Searctr: Tlpes of Equpment Arailable
The Bug Detector
Microwave Detectors
ljltrasonic Sound Generators
Tape-Recorder Detectors
Using a Scanner
The Hunter
The Scan-Lock
The Spectrum Analyzer
Nonlinear Junction Detectors
The Frequency Counter
Searching the Phone Lines
Tracking'Wires

-- 6 of 150 --

I DON:T BUG ME I
Meazuring Line Resistance
The Reflectometer
Gremlins, Martians, and Ghosts
luohat to Do If You Find a Bug
look Again
Make a Profile
Make a Plan
Destnrction of Bugs
PARTIV: OUISIDEDEVICES.. ........47
Parabolic Reflectors and Shotgun Microphones
Microwave tistening Devices
Finding Microwave Devices
Lasers: How They Vork
Finding Lasers
Defeating Lasers
PAaT Ys COMPUIER EAVESDROPPING ..........51
Tempest and the Van Eck Tectrrology
Defeating Van Eck
Securing Methods
Data Encryption
The Pak-Rat Experiment
El ectronic Tlpewriters
PART Vb VIDEO OPTICAL $]NYEII,.L/II\[C8.....57
Equipment Available
Defeating Video Surveillance
Two-r!7ay Television?
PARTVtr:(}III3R
sriRvDrrrl\NcEMErrroDs ............6r
Rain, Sleet, and Gloom of Night
Sticky Fingers
Bumper Beepers, Lojack, and Cats
1,984
PART VIII: PREVENTING SLIRVEILIf,\NCE .......65
Securing the Area: A Prisoner in Your Own Home?
Old Sparky
The RF Room Guard
Phone Guards
Trojan Horses
Look Around
PARTDS OBIAII\ING
sr,lRvErrrl\NcE EQT.mMENT .........71
Make It Yourself
Vhere to Buy It
Using Surveillance Devices
The Listening Post
PARTIG USING
INTERCEPTED INFOBM/IIIION .,,..,75
Surveillance and Privacy in the Future
PART )C: APPENDICES................. ......................77
Appendix A: The Story of a Bugging...................77
Appendix B: Equipment.......................................81
Appendix C: List of Suppliers ............93
Appendix D: Frequency List............................... 1 0 1
Appendix E: Frequency Allocation Table .......... 105
Appendix F: How Cellular Radios Vork............109
Appendix G : Modifying Scanners ...................... 1 19
Appendix H: The Cellular Phone NAM layout.J27
Appendix I: Glossary. ......................125
Appendix J: Suggested Reading ......................... 1 37
Juvenal (ca. 50 - 130 A.D.)
Satlres
"Sed qds custodbt tpsos Custofu?" ("But who ls to guard the guards tbetnselus?')
vi

-- 7 of 150 --

\K{+RNrh{c
This book contains a considerable amount of information about surveillance methods and equipment,
some of which has never been published.
It is intended as a manual for self-defense against eavesdroppers. I do not encourage anyone to use it to
invade the privacy of any other person. Bugging people is against several laws. It could get you arrested
and put in a place you wouldn't like very much.
The author and the publisher are not responsible for the use or misuse of any information contained in
this book.
I
II
I
I
vll

-- 8 of 150 --



-- 9 of 150 --

NTRODIJCTION
I believe that everyone in America should be al-
lowed to enjoy the right guaranteed by the Fourth
Amendment: the right to be left alone by govern-
ment and others who would invade their privacy.
I believe this, but not everyone else does.
There are many people in this country-and not
just federal agents-who can listen to everything
you and your family are saying in your home, on
your telephones, or in your office or car. They can
and sometimes do. I think that everyone has the
right to know about this.
Information about the methods, types of equip-
ment, easy availability, effectiveness, and means to
find and defeat them should be available to every-
one who wants it.
People are entitled to get what they bargained
for when they place their security, peace of mind,
and their cash (usually a lot of the last) in the hands
of someone who claims he can make their homes
and offices seqire from spies and wiretappers.
SI]RVEIII.ANCE AND gIIilCS
Bugging people may be unlawful, but it is not
always morally s'rong, e.g.rwhen a person is be-
ing victimized by another and law-enforcement
agencies are unable or unwilling to help. Bugging
should be used only in self-defense. There are no
"Equalizers" and "A-Teams" in real life.
The guy uas a reml lowlife, uery big and uery
rneAn, and he had a lot offrtends. Eueryone wbo
freEtented tbe bar was afratd of btm, ryecwl$ tbe
barterdu, who was hts u-wife. He would come lnto
the bar drunk andforce her to go ultth hirn on hK
rnotorcycle. Somettrns be unuld beat bq andwhen
sbe came back to work, aneryone sAu her brulsed,
puffyface.
She called bts mllttary cotnrnandtng offfer, but
he told bq that uttbout aidence orwltnesses, there
u6r,s notblnghe could do.
Sbe called the police, uho satd tbqt would "driue
by" and lookfor hlrn, but they could net)er catch
btm at the tauern.
One of the barregulan u6$ an electronlcs tecbnl-
clan, utbo, afiu seeing ber abused on@ too ofen, told,
bq be mrgh be abb to belp. He butlt a bug, showed
her bow to turn lt on, and suggested some bidtng
places for it. Tbe nst ttrte bq %-hwfund forced bu
to go wttb him,, sbe btd tbe bug tn bts bedroorn.
For ten nigbts tbe tecbntctan parked his old
Dod.ge uan near tbe guy's apartffient and listened
until he got sonetbtng he could use: the sounds af
hl.m uerbally abusing and tben beating anotber
wornan he had taken botne.
The rrcxt day, he made copi6 of the tape and sent
one to tbe guy, along wtth a note, and anotber to
his CO. The ex neuer catne back to tbe bar again.
This ts a tr,,rc stoty.
I understand the helplessness law-enforcement
officials must feel when arrested drug dealers and
other criminals are back on the street within hours;
I sympathize with them if they bend the rules to try
to keep known criminals off the street. I don't like
crime either.
\fhat I do not sympathize with is the govern-

-- 10 of 150 --

I DONTBUGME I
ment's abuse of the power it has to spy on people
who are not criminals and are not even suspected of
a crime, such as political activists and protestors
who disagree with the way the administration is
running the country. This I am against.
\Xtren Richard Nixon had Assistant U.S. Attomey
General Morton Halperin's phones tapped, was
there a clear and present danger to national secu-
rity to justify this action? Nixon remarked of this;
"$7hen a president does it, it is not illegal."
During the Nixon administration, federal agents
tapped the phones of those they believed to be po-
litical dissidents, and U.S. Attorney General John
Mitchell tried to justiff this by claiming that "national
security may involve threats from domestic groups."
The U.S. Supreme Court disagreed with Mitchell,
and ruled that the government could not indis-
criminately ap the phones of zuspected dissidents.
The Federal Bureau of Investigation (nBI) has,
for years, tried to get public libraries to provide the
names of patrons vfio check out certain books that
it corsiders seditious, and agants have admiued that
they go to libraries to look for people who read
publications such as Aviation 'Week, Defense
Electronics, and other technical magazine.Is read-
nga magaztne that anyone can subscribe to a threat
to national security?
A few year6 ago, the FBI conducted a large-scale
zurveillance operation against menrbers of a group
of people who were protesting the United States'
involvement in El Salvador, and the agency got
caught doing this. The punishment for 